
## 0. Create a new project

- https://angular.io/tutorial/tour-of-heroes/toh-pt0


### Set up your environment 

- https://angular.io/guide/setup-local



### Create a new workspace and an initial application

```
ng new angular_heroes
? Would you like to add Angular routing? No
? Which stylesheet format would you like to use? CSS
```

- `ng new` installs the necessary `npm` packages and other dependencies that Angular requires. This can take a few minutes.

- `ng new` also creates the following workspace and starter project files:
    - A new workspace, with a root directory named `angular_heroes`
    - An initial skeleton application project in the `src/app` subdirectory
    - Related configuration files

- The initial application project contains a simple application that's ready to run.


### Serve the application

```
cd cd angular_heroes
ng serve --open
```
- The `ng serve` command:
    - Builds the application
    - Starts the development server
    - Watches the source files
    - Rebuilds the application as you make changes

The `--open` flag opens a browser to `http://localhost:4200`.



### Angular components

- The page you see is the application shell. The shell is controlled by an Angular component named `AppComponent`.

- Components are the fundamental building blocks of Angular applications. They display data on the screen, listen for user input, and take action based on that input.


### Make changes to the application

- Open the project in your favorite editor or IDE. Navigate to the `src/app` directory to edit the starter application. In the IDE, locate these files, which make up the `AppComponent` that you just created:

| FILES             | DETAILS                                            |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| app.component.ts  | The component class code, written in TypeScript.   |
| app.component.html| The component template, written in HTML.           |
| app.component.css	| The component's private CSS styles.                |

#### Change the application title
- **app.component.ts**
```ts
title = 'Tour of Heroes';
```

- **app.component.html**
```html
<h1>{{title}}</h1>
```

- The double curly braces are Angular's *interpolation binding syntax*. This interpolation binding presents the component's `title` property value inside the HTML header tag.
- The browser refreshes and displays the new application title.


#### Add application styles
- **src/styles.css**