
## 1. The hero editor

- https://angular.io/tutorial/tour-of-heroes/toh-pt1


### Create the heroes component

```
ng generate component heroes
```
- `ng generate` creates a new directory , `src/app/heroes/`, and generates the three files of the `HeroesComponent` along with a test file.

```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',
  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})
export class HeroesComponent {
}
```
- You always import the `Component` symbol from the Angular core library and annotate the component class with `@Component`.
- `@Component` is a decorator function that specifies the Angular metadata for the component.

- `ng generate` created three metadata properties:

| PROPERTIES    | DETAILS                                               |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| selector      | The component's CSS element selector.                 |
| templateUrl	| The location of the component's template file.        |
| styleUrls     | The location of the component's private CSS styles.   |

- The CSS element selector, 'app-heroes', matches the name of the HTML element that identifies this component within a parent component's template.

- Always export the component class so you can import it elsewhere … like in the `AppModule`.


#### Add a *hero* property
- **heroes.component.ts**
```ts
hero = 'Windstorm';
```

#### Show the hero
- **heroes.component.html**
```html
<h2>{{hero}}</h2>
```

### Show the *HeroesComponent* view

- To display the `HeroesComponent`, you must add it to the template of the shell `AppComponent`.
- Remember that `app-heroes` is the element selector for the `HeroesComponent`. Add an `<app-heroes>` element to the `AppComponent` template file, just below the title.
- **src/app/app.component.html**
```html
<h1>{{title}}</h1>
<app-heroes></app-heroes>
```


### Create a *Hero* interface
- A real hero is more than a name.
- Create a `Hero` interface in its own file in the `src/app` directory . Give it `id` and `name` properties.
- **src/app/hero.ts**
```ts
export interface Hero {
  id: number;
  name: string;
}
```

- Return to the `HeroesComponent` class and import the `Hero` interface.
- Refactor the component's `hero` property to be of type `Hero`. Initialize it with an `id` of **1** and the `name` **Windstorm**.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
import { Component } from '@angular/core';
import { Hero } from '../hero';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',
  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})
export class HeroesComponent {
  hero: Hero = {
    id: 1,
    name: 'Windstorm'
  };
}
```


### Show the hero object

- **heroes.component.html**
```html
<h2>{{hero.name}} Details</h2>
<div><span>id: </span>{{hero.id}}</div>
<div><span>name: </span>{{hero.name}}</div>
```


### Format with the *UppercasePipe*

- Edit the `hero.name` binding like this:
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html**
```html
<h2>{{hero.name | uppercase}} Details</h2>
```

- The browser refreshes and now the hero's name is displayed in capital letters.
- The word `uppercase` in the interpolation binding after the pipe `|` character, activates the built-in `UppercasePipe`.
- `Pipes` are a good way to format strings, currency amounts, dates, and other display data. Angular ships with several built-in pipes and you can create your own.


### Edit the hero

- Users should be able to edit the hero's name in an `<input>` text box.
- The text box should both display the hero's `name` property and update that property as the user types. That means data flows from the component class out to the screen and from the screen back to the class.
- To automate that data flow, set up a two-way data binding between the `<input>` form element and the `hero.name` property.


#### Two-way binding
- Refactor the details area in the `HeroesComponent` template.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.html**

```html
<div>
  <label for="name">Hero name: </label>
  <input id="name" [(ngModel)]="hero.name" placeholder="name">
</div>
```

- `[(ngModel)]` is Angular's two-way data binding syntax.
- Here it binds the `hero.name` property to the HTML text box so that data can flow *in both directions*. Data can flow from the `hero.name` property to the text box and from the text box back to the `hero.name`.


#### The missing *FormsModule*

- Notice that the application stopped working when you added `[(ngModel)]`.
- To see the error, open the browser development tools and look in the console for a message like
```
Template parse errors:
Can't bind to 'ngModel' since it isn't a known property of 'input'.
```
- Although `ngModel` is a valid Angular directive, it isn't available by default.
- It belongs to the optional `FormsModule` and you must *opt in* to using it.


#### AppModule

- Angular needs to know how the pieces of your application fit together and what other files and libraries the application requires. This information is called *metadata*.

- Some of the metadata is in the `@Component` decorators that you added to your component classes. Other critical metadata is in `@NgModule` decorators.

- The most important `@NgModule` decorator annotates the top-level **AppModule** class.

- `ng new` created an `AppModule` class in `src/app/app.module.ts` when it created the project. This is where you *opt in* to the `FormsModule`


#### Import FormsModule

- Open `app.module.ts` and import the `FormsModule` symbol from the `@angular/forms library`.
- **app.module.ts**
```ts
import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms'; // <-- NgModel lives here
```

- Add `FormsModule` to the imports array in `@NgModule`. The `imports` array contains the list of external modules that the application needs.
- **app.module.ts**
```ts
imports: [
  BrowserModule,
  FormsModule
],
```

#### Declare *HeroesComponent*

- Every component must be declared in exactly one `NgModule`.
- You didn't declare the `HeroesComponent`. Why did the application work?
- It worked because the `ng generate` declared `HeroesComponent` in `AppModule` when it created that component.

- Open `src/app/app.module.ts` and find `HeroesComponent` imported near the top.
- **src/app/app.module.ts**
```ts
import { HeroesComponent } from './heroes/heroes.component';
```
- The `HeroesComponent` is declared in the `@NgModule.declarations` array.
- **src/app/app.module.ts**
```ts
declarations: [
  AppComponent,
  HeroesComponent
],
```