
## 2. Display a selection list

- https://angular.io/tutorial/tour-of-heroes/toh-pt2


### Create mock heroes

- The first step is to create some heroes to display.
- Create a file called `mock-heroes.ts` in the `src/app/` directory. Define a `HEROES` constant as an array of ten heroes and export it. The file should look like this.

- **src/app/mock-heroes.ts**
```ts
import { Hero } from './hero';

export const HEROES: Hero[] = [
  { id: 12, name: 'Dr. Nice' },
  { id: 13, name: 'Bombasto' },
  { id: 14, name: 'Celeritas' },
  { id: 15, name: 'Magneta' },
  { id: 16, name: 'RubberMan' },
  { id: 17, name: 'Dynama' },
  { id: 18, name: 'Dr. IQ' },
  { id: 19, name: 'Magma' },
  { id: 20, name: 'Tornado' }
];
```

### Displaying heroes

- Open the `HeroesComponent` class file and import the mock `HEROES`.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
import { HEROES } from '../mock-heroes';
```

- In `HeroesComponent` class, define a component property called `heroes` to expose the `HEROES` array for binding.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
export class HeroesComponent {

  heroes = HEROES;
}
```


#### List heroes with **ngFor*

- Open the `HeroesComponent` template file and make the following changes.
- **heroes.component.html**

```html
<h2>My Heroes</h2>
<ul class="heroes">
  <li>
    <button type="button">
      <span class="badge">{{hero.id}}</span>
      <span class="name">{{hero.name}}</span>
    </button>
  </li>
</ul>
```

- That displays an error since the 'hero' property doesn't exist. To have access to each individual hero and list them all, add an `*ngFor` to the `<li>` to iterate through the list of heroes.
```html
<li *ngFor="let hero of heroes">
```
- The `*ngFor` is Angular's repeater directive. It repeats the host element for each element in a list.


#### Style the heroes

- The heroes list should be attractive and should respond visually when users hover over and select a hero from the list.
- In the first tutorial, you set the basic styles for the entire application in `styles.css`. That style sheet didn't include styles for this list of heroes.
- You could add more styles to `styles.css` and keep growing that style sheet as you add components.
- You may prefer instead to define private styles for a specific component. This keeps everything a component needs, such as the code, the HTML, and the CSS, together in one place.
- This approach makes it easier to re-use the component somewhere else and deliver the component's intended appearance even if the global styles are different.
- You define private styles either inline in the `@Component.styles` array or as style sheet files identified in the `@Component.styleUrls` array.
- When the `ng generate` created the `HeroesComponent`, it created an empty `heroes.component.css` style sheet for the `HeroesComponent` and pointed to it in `@Component.styleUrls` like this.

```ts
@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',
  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})
```

- Open the `heroes.component.css` file and paste in the private CSS styles for the `HeroesComponent` from the final code review.



### Viewing details

- When the user clicks a hero in the list, the component should display the selected hero's details at the bottom of the page.
- The code in this section listens for the hero item click event and display/update the hero details.


#### Add a click event binding

- Add a click event binding to the `<button>` in the `<li>` like this.
- **heroes.component.html**
```html
<li *ngFor="let hero of heroes">
  <button type="button" (click)="onSelect(hero)">
  <!-- ... -->
```

- This is an example of Angular's **event binding** syntax.
- The parentheses around `click` tell Angular to listen for the `<button>` element's `click` event. When the user clicks in the `<button>`, Angular executes the `onSelect(hero)` expression.
- In the next section, define an `onSelect()` method in `HeroesComponent` to display the hero that was defined in the `*ngFor` expression.


#### Add the click event handler

- Rename the component's `hero` property to `selectedHero` but don't assign any value to it since there is no selected hero when the application starts.
- Add the following `onSelect()` method, which assigns the clicked hero from the template to the component's `selectedHero`.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
selectedHero?: Hero;
onSelect(hero: Hero): void {
  this.selectedHero = hero;
}
```

#### Add a details section

- Currently, you have a list in the component template. To show details about a hero when you click their name in the list, add a section in the template that displays their details. Add the following to `heroes.component.html` beneath the list section:

- **heroes.component.html**
```html
<div *ngIf="selectedHero">
  <h2>{{selectedHero.name | uppercase}} Details</h2>
  <div>id: {{selectedHero.id}}</div>
  <div>
    <label for="hero-name">Hero name: </label>
    <input id="hero-name" [(ngModel)]="selectedHero.name" placeholder="name">
  </div>
</div>
```

- The hero details should only be displayed when a hero is selected. When a component is created initially, there is no selected hero. Add the `*ngIf` directive to the `<div>` that wraps the hero details. This directive tells Angular to render the section only when the `selectedHero` is defined after it has been selected by clicking on a hero.


#### Style the selected hero

- To help identify the selected hero, you can use the `.selected` CSS class in the styles you added earlier. To apply the `.selected` class to the `<li>` when the user clicks it, use class binding.

- Angular's **class binding** can add and remove a CSS class conditionally. Add `[class.some-css-class]="some-condition"` to the element you want to style.
- Add the following `[class.selected]` binding to the `<button>` in the HeroesComponent template.

- **heroes.component.html**
```html
[class.selected]="hero === selectedHero"
```
- When the current row hero is the same as the `selectedHero`, Angular adds the `selected` CSS class. When the two heroes are different, Angular removes the class.

- **heroes.component.html**
```html
<li *ngFor="let hero of heroes">
  <button [class.selected]="hero === selectedHero" type="button" (click)="onSelect(hero)">
    <span class="badge">{{hero.id}}</span>
    <span class="name">{{hero.name}}</span>
  </button>
</li>
```