
## 3. Create a feature component

- https://angular.io/tutorial/tour-of-heroes/toh-pt3


- At the moment, the `HeroesComponent` displays both the list of heroes and the selected hero's details.
- Keeping all features in one component as the application grows won't be maintainable. This tutorial splits up large components into smaller subcomponents, each focused on a specific task or workflow.
- The first step is to move the hero details into a separate, reusable `HeroDetailComponent` and end up with:
  - A `HeroesComponent` that presents the list of heroes.
  - A `HeroDetailComponent` that presents the details of a selected hero.


### Make the HeroDetailComponent

- Use this `ng generate` command to create a new component named `hero-detail`.
```
ng generate component hero-detail
```

- The command scaffolds the following:
  - Creates a directory `src/app/hero-detail`.

- Inside that directory, four files are created:
  - A CSS file for the component styles.
  - An HTML file for the component template.
  - A TypeScript file with a component class named `HeroDetailComponent`.
  - A test file for the `HeroDetailComponent` class.

- The command also adds the `HeroDetailComponent` as a declaration in the `@NgModule` decorator of the `src/app/app.module.ts` file.


#### Write the template

- Cut the HTML for the hero detail from the bottom of the `HeroesComponent` template and paste it over the boilerplate content in the `HeroDetailComponent` template.

- The pasted HTML refers to a `selectedHero`. The new `HeroDetailComponent` can present any hero, not just a selected hero. Replace `selectedHero` with `hero` everywhere in the template.

- **src/app/hero-detail/hero-detail.component.html**
```html
<div *ngIf="hero">

  <h2>{{hero.name | uppercase}} Details</h2>
  <div><span>id: </span>{{hero.id}}</div>
  <div>
    <label for="hero-name">Hero name: </label>
    <input id="hero-name" [(ngModel)]="hero.name" placeholder="name">
  </div>

</div>
```


#### Add the *@Input()* hero property

- The `HeroDetailComponent` template binds to the component's hero property which is of type `Hero`.
- Open the `HeroDetailComponent` class file and import the `Hero` symbol.

- **src/app/hero-detail/hero-detail.component.ts**
```ts
import { Hero } from '../hero';
```

- The `hero` property must be an `Input` property, annotated with the `@Input()` decorator, because the external `HeroesComponent` binds to it like this.
```html
<app-hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></app-hero-detail>
```

- Amend the `@angular/core` import statement to include the `Input` symbol.
- **src/app/hero-detail/hero-detail.component.ts**
```ts
import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
```

- Add a `hero` property, preceded by the `@Input()` decorator.
- **src/app/hero-detail/hero-detail.component.ts**
```ts
@Input() hero?: Hero;
```

- That's the only change you should make to the `HeroDetailComponent` class. There are no more properties. There's no presentation logic. This component only receives a hero object through its `hero` property and displays it.


### Show the HeroDetailComponent

- The `HeroesComponent` used to display the hero details on its own, before you removed that part of the template. This section guides you through delegating logic to the `HeroDetailComponent`.
- The two components have a parent/child relationship. The parent, `HeroesComponent`, controls the child, `HeroDetailComponent` by sending it a new hero to display whenever the user selects a hero from the list.
- You don't need to change the `HeroesComponent` class, instead change its template.


#### Update the HeroesComponent template

- The `HeroDetailComponent` selector is `'app-hero-detail'`. Add an `<app-hero-detail>` element near the bottom of the `HeroesComponent` template, where the hero detail view used to be.

```html
<app-hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></app-hero-detail>
```

- `[hero]="selectedHero"` is an Angular *property binding*.
- It's a one-way data binding from the `selectedHero` property of the `HeroesComponent` to the `hero` property of the target element, which maps to the `hero` property of the `HeroDetailComponent`.
- Now when the user clicks a hero in the list, the `selectedHero` changes. When the `selectedHero` changes, the *property binding* updates `hero` and the `HeroDetailComponent` displays the new hero. 

- **heroes.component.html**
```html
<h2>My Heroes</h2>

<ul class="heroes">
  <li *ngFor="let hero of heroes">
    <button [class.selected]="hero === selectedHero" type="button" (click)="onSelect(hero)">
      <span class="badge">{{hero.id}}</span>
      <span class="name">{{hero.name}}</span>
    </button>
  </li>
</ul>

<app-hero-detail [hero]="selectedHero"></app-hero-detail>
```