
## 4. Add services

- https://angular.io/tutorial/tour-of-heroes/toh-pt4


- The Tour of Heroes `HeroesComponent` is getting and displaying fake data.
- Refactoring the `HeroesComponent` focuses on supporting the view and making it easier to unit-test with a mock service.


### Why services

- Components shouldn't fetch or save data directly, and they certainly shouldn't knowingly present fake data. They should focus on presenting data and delegate data access to a service.

- This tutorial creates a `HeroService` that all application classes can use to get heroes. Instead of creating that service with the `new` keyword, use the *dependency injection* that Angular supports to inject it into the `HeroesComponent` constructor.

- Services are a great way to share information among classes that don't know each other. Create a `MessageService` next and inject it in these two places.
  - Inject in `HeroService`, which uses the service to send a message
  - Inject in `MessagesComponent`, which displays that message, and also displays the ID when the user clicks a hero


### Create the HeroService

- Run `ng generate` to create a service called `hero`.
```
ng generate service hero
```

- The command generates a skeleton `HeroService` class in `src/app/hero.service.ts`.
```ts
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class HeroService {

  constructor() { }

}
```


#### *@Injectable()* services

- Notice that the new service imports the Angular `Injectable` symbol and annotates the class with the `@Injectable()` decorator. This marks the class as one that participates in the *dependency injection system*. The `HeroService` class is going to provide an injectable service, and it can also have its own injected dependencies. It doesn't have any dependencies yet.

- The `@Injectable()` decorator accepts a metadata object for the service, the same way the `@Component()` decorator did for your component classes.


#### Get hero data

- The `HeroService` could get hero data from anywhere such as a web service, local storage, or a mock data source.
- Removing data access from components means you can change your mind about the implementation anytime, without touching any components. They don't know how the service works.

- Import the Hero and HEROES.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
import { Hero } from './hero';
import { HEROES } from './mock-heroes';
```

- Add a `getHeroes` method to return the mock heroes.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
getHeroes(): Hero[] {
  return HEROES;
}
```


### Provide the *HeroService*

- You must make the `HeroService` available to the dependency injection system before Angular can *inject* it into the `HeroesComponent` by registering a *provider*. A *provider* is something that can create or deliver a service. In this case, it instantiates the `HeroService` class to provide the service.

- To make sure that the `HeroService` can provide this service, register it with the *injector*. The *injector* is the object that chooses and injects the provider where the application requires it.

- By default, `ng generate service` registers a provider with the *root injector* for your service by including provider metadata, that's `providedIn: 'root'` in the `@Injectable()` decorator.

```ts
@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
```

- When you provide the service at the root level, Angular creates a single, shared instance of `HeroService` and injects into any class that asks for it. Registering the provider in the `@Injectable` metadata also allows Angular to optimize an application by removing the service if it isn't used.

- The `HeroService` is now ready to plug into the `HeroesComponent`.



- ### Update *HeroesComponent*

- Open the `HeroesComponent` class file.
- Delete the `HEROES` import, because you won't need that anymore. Import the `HeroService` instead.

- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';
```

- Replace the definition of the `heroes` property with a declaration.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
heroes: Hero[] = [];
```


#### Inject the *HeroService*

- Add a private `heroService` parameter of type `HeroService` to the constructor.

- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
constructor(private heroService: HeroService) {}
```

- The parameter simultaneously defines a private `heroService` property and identifies it as a `HeroService` injection site.
- When Angular creates a `HeroesComponent`, the *Dependency Injection* system sets the `heroService` parameter to the singleton instance of `HeroService`.


#### Add *getHeroes()*

- Create a method to retrieve the heroes from the service.
- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
getHeroes(): void {
  this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
}
```


#### Call it in *ngOnInit()*

- While you could call `getHeroes()` in the constructor, that's not the best practice.

- Reserve the constructor for *minimal* initialization such as wiring constructor parameters to properties. The constructor shouldn't do anything. It certainly shouldn't call a function that makes HTTP requests to a remote server as a real data service would.

- Instead, call `getHeroes()` inside the `ngOnInit lifecycle hook` and let Angular call `ngOnInit()` at an appropriate time *after* constructing a `HeroesComponent` instance.

- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
ngOnInit(): void {
  this.getHeroes();
}
```


### Observable data

- The `HeroService.getHeroes()` method has a *synchronous signature*, which implies that the `HeroService` can fetch heroes synchronously. The `HeroesComponent` consumes the `getHeroes()` result as if heroes could be fetched synchronously.

- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
```

- This approach won't work in a real application that uses *asynchronous* calls. It works now because your service synchronously returns `mock heroes`.

- If `getHeroes()` can't return immediately with hero data, it shouldn't be synchronous, because that would block the browser as it waits to return data.

- `HeroService.getHeroes()` must have an *asynchronous signature* of some kind.

- In this tutorial, `HeroService.getHeroes()` returns an `Observable` so that it can use the Angular `HttpClient.get` method to fetch the heroes and have `HttpClient.get()` return an `Observable`.


#### Observable *HeroService*

- `Observable` is one of the key classes in the **RxJS library**.

- In the tutorial on HTTP, you can see how Angular's `HttpClient` methods return RxJS `Observable` objects. This tutorial simulates getting data from the server with the RxJS `of()` function.

- Open the `HeroService` file and import the `Observable` and `of` symbols from RxJS.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
import { Observable, of } from 'rxjs';
```

- Replace the `getHeroes()` method.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
getHeroes(): Observable<Hero[]> {
  const heroes = of(HEROES);
  return heroes;
}
```
- `of(HEROES)` returns an `Observable<Hero[]>` that emits a *single value*, the array of mock heroes.


#### Subscribe in *HeroesComponent*

- The `HeroService.getHeroes` method used to return a `Hero[]`. Now it returns an `Observable<Hero[]>`.

- You need to adjust your application to work with that change to `HeroesComponent`.

- Find the `getHeroes` method and replace it with the following code. the new code is shown side-by-side with the current version for comparison.

- **heroes.component.ts [OBSERVABLE]**
```ts
getHeroes(): void {
  this.heroService.getHeroes()
      .subscribe(heroes => this.heroes = heroes);
}
```

- **heroes.component.ts [ORIGINAL]**
```ts
getHeroes(): void {
  this.heroes = this.heroService.getHeroes();
}
```

- `Observable.subscribe()` is the critical difference.

- The previous version assigns an array of heroes to the component's heroes property. The assignment occurs *synchronously*, as if the server could return heroes instantly or the browser could freeze the UI while it waited for the server's response.

- That won't work when the `HeroService` is actually making requests of a remote server.

- The new version waits for the `Observable` to emit the array of heroes, which could happen now or several minutes from now. The `subscribe()` method passes the emitted array to the callback, which sets the component's `heroes` property.

- This asynchronous approach *works* when the `HeroService` requests heroes from the server.



### Show messages

- This section guides you through the following:

  - Adding a `MessagesComponent` that displays application messages at the bottom of the screen
  - Creating an injectable, application-wide `MessageService` for sending messages to be displayed
  - Injecting `MessageService` into the `HeroService`
  - Displaying a message when `HeroService` fetches heroes successfully


#### Create *MessagesComponent*

```
ng generate component messages
```

- Edit the `AppComponent` template to display the `MessagesComponent`.
- **src/app/app.component.html**
```html
<h1>{{title}}</h1>
<app-heroes></app-heroes>
<app-messages></app-messages>
```


#### Create the *MessageService*

```
ng generate service message
```

- Open `MessageService` and replace its contents with the following.
- **src/app/message.service.ts**
```ts
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class MessageService {
  messages: string[] = [];

  add(message: string) {
    this.messages.push(message);
  }

  clear() {
    this.messages = [];
  }
}
```

- The service exposes its cache of `messages` and two methods:
  - One to `add()` a message to the cache.
  - Another to `clear()` the cache.


#### Inject it into the *HeroService*

- In `HeroService`, import the `MessageService`.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
import { MessageService } from './message.service';
```

- Edit the constructor with a parameter that declares a private `messageService` property. Angular injects the singleton `MessageService` into that property when it creates the `HeroService`.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
constructor(private messageService: MessageService) { }
```

- This is an example of a typical *service-in-service* scenario in which you inject the `MessageService` into the `HeroService` which is injected into the `HeroesComponent`.


#### Send a message from *HeroService*

- Edit the `getHeroes()` method to send a message when the heroes are fetched.
- **src/app/hero.service.ts**
```ts
getHeroes(): Observable<Hero[]> {
  const heroes = of(HEROES);
  this.messageService.add('HeroService: fetched heroes');
  return heroes;
}
```


#### Display the message from *HeroService*

- The `MessagesComponent` should display all messages, including the message sent by the `HeroService` when it fetches heroes.
- Open `MessagesComponent` and import the `MessageService`.

- **src/app/messages/messages.component.ts**
```ts
import { MessageService } from '../message.service';
```

- Edit the constructor with a parameter that declares a public `messageService` property. Angular injects the singleton `MessageService` into that property when it creates the `MessagesComponent`.

- **src/app/messages/messages.component.ts**
```ts
constructor(public messageService: MessageService) {}
```

- The `messageService` property must be *public* because you're going to bind to it in the template.
- ⚠️ Angular only binds to public component properties.



#### Bind to the *MessageService*

- Replace the `MessagesComponent` template created.

- **src/app/messages/messages.component.html**
```html
<div *ngIf="messageService.messages.length">

  <h2>Messages</h2>
  <button type="button" class="clear"
          (click)="messageService.clear()">Clear messages</button>
  <div *ngFor='let message of messageService.messages'> {{message}} </div>

</div>
```

- This template binds directly to the component's `messageService`.

| DETAILS                                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `*ngIf`	Only displays the messages area if there are messages to show.            |
| `*ngFor`	Presents the list of messages in repeated `<div>` elements.             |
| Angular event binding	Binds the button's click event to `MessageService.clear()`. |

- The messages look better after you add the private CSS styles to `messages.component.css` as listed in one of the "final code review" tabs below.



### Add MessageService to HeroesComponent

- The following example shows how to display a history of each time the user clicks on a hero. This helps when you get to the next section on *Routing*.

- **src/app/heroes/heroes.component.ts**
```ts
import { Component, OnInit } from '@angular/core';

import { Hero } from '../hero';
import { HeroService } from '../hero.service';
import { MessageService } from '../message.service';

@Component({
  selector: 'app-heroes',
  templateUrl: './heroes.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./heroes.component.css']
})
export class HeroesComponent implements OnInit {

  selectedHero?: Hero;

  heroes: Hero[] = [];

  constructor(private heroService: HeroService, private messageService: MessageService) { }

  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.getHeroes();
  }

  onSelect(hero: Hero): void {
    this.selectedHero = hero;
    this.messageService.add(`HeroesComponent: Selected hero id=${hero.id}`);
  }

  getHeroes(): void {
    this.heroService.getHeroes()
        .subscribe(heroes => this.heroes = heroes);
  }
}
```